react-avatar: AvatarGroup SPEC review (#22523)
microsoft/fluentui: packages/react-avatar/SPEC-AvatarGroup.md

# AvatarGroup Spec

## Background

> The AvatarGroup component represents multiple people or entities. Avatar groups can be represented in a stacked layout, pie layout, and grid layout.

Reviewer: nit: refer to components as proper nouns (i.e., like a person)
```suggestion
AvatarGroup represents multiple people or entities. AvatarGroups can be represented in a stacked layout, pie layout, and grid layout.
```

| [Attlassian](https://atlassian.design/components/avatar-group/examples)               | Avatar group | Component uses data prop, which is a list of "entries" to represent each avatar in the group. |
| [Ant Design](https://ant.design/components/avatar/)                                   | Avatar.Group | Uses subcomponent `<Avatar.Group>` to group the avatars given as children.                    |
| [Primer React](https://primer.style/react/AvatarStack)                                | AvatarStack  | Acts similar to a FlexBox, avatars are given as children and grouped.                         |

### Comparison v8 and v0

There's only one existent component similar to AvatarGroup in v8 `Facepile`. v0 doesn't have an equivalent of this component.

- v8 [Facepile](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/fluentui#/controls/web/facepile): Only offers grid layout and offers three overflow indicator styles.

## Epic issue: [#22240](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/issues/22240)

## Sample Code

```jsx
import { AvatarGroup, Avatar } from '@fluentui/react-avatar';

const App = () => {
  return (
    <AvatarGroup layout="grid" size={32}>

>       <Avatar color="colorful" name="Katri Athokas" />

Reviewer: AvatarGroup overrides its child `size` prope, should we also do that for `colorful`? I know `size` needs to be provided on AvatarGroup to provide consistent layout so maybe `colorful` can be conditional? E.g.,:

```jsx
<AvatarGroup color="colorful">
    <Avatar name="Elvia Atkins"/> // uses "color" from AvatarGroup
    <Avatar color="cornflower" name="Cameron Evans" /> // overrides "color" from AvatarGroup
</AvatarGroup>
```

Author: Based on the design spec, I have to use a specific order of colors for the avatars. I'll talk to design and see if doing this isn't a problem, but I totally agree with you.

        </Tooltip>
      </PopoverTrigger>
      <slots.popoverSurface {...slotProps.popoverSurface} />
    </Popover>
  )}
</slots.root>
```

- _**DOM** - how the component will be rendered as HTML elements_

```html
<div className="fui-AvatarGroup" role="group">
  <Avatar />
  <Avatar />
  <Avatar />
  <Avatar />
  <button>+1</button>
</div>

// on document.body
<div class="fui-AvatarGroup__popoverSurface" role="complementary">
  <div class="fui-AvatarGroup__popoverSurfaceItem">
    <Avatar />
    <label />
  </div>
  <!-- ... -->
  <div class="fui-AvatarGroup__popoverSurfaceItem">
    <Avatar />
    <label />
  </div>
</div>
```

## Migration

See [MIGRATION-AvatarGroup.md](MIGRATION-AvatarGroup.md) for details.

## Behaviors

_Explain how the component will behave in use, including:_

- _Component States_
  - Overflowed state: When there are more Avatars than the `maxAvatars`, an overflow indicator will be rendered that can be clicked to look at the rest of the avatars.
    - `Pie` layout: since `maxAvatars` is ignored, the overflow indicator will be rendered strictly when there's more than three avatars.
- _Interaction_

>   - _Keyboard_: Overflow indicator can be intereacted with the keyboard and when enter is pressed a popover that traps focus will be rendered.

Reviewer 2: _nit:_ typo

```suggestion
  - _Keyboard_: Overflow indicator can be interacted with the keyboard and when enter is pressed a popover that traps focus will be rendered.
```

  - _Cursor_ and _Touch_: When overflow indicator is clicked, the popover is displayed with the avatars that overflow. When the overflow indicator is hovered, a tooltip will read the number of people overflowed (`{numOverflowAvatars} more people` by default).
  - _Screen readers_:
    - `Avatar`: logic is handled by `Avatar` component.
    - `AvatarGroup`:
      - When a label is used alongside `AvatarGroup` and focused, all Avatars are read. If the overflow indicator is rendered, the popover localized text is read.

>       - Avatars can be focused and the name will be read . To get to the overflowed avatars, the Popover must be triggered and will get focus letting the user traverse through the overflowed Avatars.

Reviewer 2: _nit_ wording

```suggestion
      - Avatars can be focused and the name will be read. To get to the Avatars in the overflow menu, the Popover must be triggered, which will in turn set focus on it and let the user traverse through the set of overflowed Avatars.
```
